# 概述

主要聚焦传感器驱动的话题命名空间，最佳处理方法是避免所有驱动在一个命名空间内，造成混淆

# 规范

## 使用命名空间

When launching a node from rosrun, the best practice is to:

> ROS_NAMESPACE=my_namespace rosrun my_package my_node

When launching a node from a roslaunch file, the best practice is to:

> <group ns="my_namespace">

> <node pkg="my_package" type="my_node" name="this_node_name" />

> </group>

## 由用户添加命名空间

Drivers should not add a configurable namespace to all of their topics for the purposes of grouping the topics.

驱动不应该自己加入可配置的命名空间，应该由开发人员在rosrun时

For example, it is not appropriate to advertise the following if the node was launched in the global namespace ('/'):

> /camera/image_raw

> /camera/camera_info

Instead, a driver should publish the following and warn that the driver was launched in the global namespace:

> image_raw

> camera_info

## 复杂设备可带命名空间

If a driver publishes many topics, it is still appropriate to push these into local namespaces for grouping. One example is where a device contains multiple cameras such as a stereo pair or an OpenNI camera. For example, OpenNI publishes:

> depth/image_raw

> depth/camera_info

> rgb/image_raw

> rgb/camera_info

> depth_registered/image_raw

> depth_registered/camera_info

> ir/image_raw

> ir/camera_info

> projector/camera_info

# 考虑

Traditionally, some drivers, specifically cameras, have had friendlier usage for rosrun where their topics were grouped into a namespace. This had the advantage of avoiding collisions if two similar drivers were run manually. However, this led to issues when scaling to more complicated drivers or when composing simple launch files. Since it often required both topic remapping and namespace remapping, it wasn't always clear which took precedent - commonly resulting in duplicated or missing namespaces.

主要是为了用户友好，不混淆，在复杂场景下依然能够清晰使用

Where nodes push all of their topics into a namespace, tools like 'rosnode list' will report the driver in the top level namespace, which could make it confusing as to which node is publishing in which namespaces. (For example 'camera_rgb' node publishes into 'top_camera' and 'camera_mono' publishes into 'side_camera').

This also affects parameters as they are usually in the node's private namespace. It is not immediately obvious which topic streams would be affected by 'camera_rgb/~exposure' if the namespace is independent from the driver.

# 参考

[REP 135 -- Driver Namespace Practices (ROS.org)](https://www.ros.org/reps/rep-0135.html)
