Mapping of ROS 2 Topic and Service Names to DDS Concepts

The ROS topic and service name constraints allow more types of characters than the DDS topic names because ROS additionally allows the forward slash (`/`), the tilde (`~`), and the balanced curly braces (`{}`). These must be substituted or otherwise removed during the process of converting the topic or service name to DDS concepts. Since ROS 2 topic and service names are expanded to fully qualified names, any balanced bracket (`{}`) substitutions and tildes (`~`) will have been expanded. Additionally any URL related syntax, e.g. the `rostopic://` prefix, will be removed once parsed. Previously forward slashes (`/`) were disallowed in DDS topic names, now the restriction has been lifted (see [issue](https://issues.omg.org/issues/lists/dds-rtf5#issue-42236) on omg.org) and therefore the ROS topic names are first prefixed with ROS Specific Namespace prefix (described below) are then mapped directly into DDS topic names.

### ROS Specific Namespace Prefix

In order to differentiate ROS topics easily, all DDS topics created by ROS shall be automatically prefixed with a namespace like `/rX`, where `X` is a single character that indicates to which subsystem of ROS the topic belongs. For example, a plain topic called `/foo` would translate to a DDS topic `rt/foo`, which is the result of implicitly adding `rt` to the namespace of a ROS topic which is in the root namespace `/` and has a base name `foo`. As another example, a topic called `/left/image_raw` would translate to a DDS topic `rt/left/image_raw`, which is the result of implicitly adding `rt` to the namespace of a ROS topic which is in the namespace `/left` and has a base name `image_raw`.For systems where Services are implemented with topics (like with OpenSplice), a different subsystem character can be used: `rq` for the request topic and `rr` for the response topic. On systems where Services are handled explicitly implemented, we consider a separate prefix, e.g. `rs`.

Here is a non-exhaustive list of prefixes:

| ROS Subsystem        | Prefix |
| -------------------- | ------ |
| ROS Topics           | rt     |
| ROS Service Request  | rq     |
| ROS Service Response | rr     |
| ROS Service          | rs     |
| ROS Parameter        | rp     |
| ROS Action           | ra     |

While all planned prefixes consist of two characters, i.e. `rX`, anything proceeding the first namespace separator, i.e. `/`, can be considered part of the prefix. The standard reserves the right to use up to 8 characters for the prefix in case additional prefix space is needed in the future.

### Examples of ROS Names to DDS Concepts

Here are some examples of how a fully qualified ROS name would be broken down into DDS concepts:

| ROS Name                      | DDS Topic                       |
| ----------------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| /foo                          | rt/foo                          |
| rostopic:///foo/bar           | rt/foo/bar                      |
| /robot1/camera_left/image_raw | rt/robot1/camera_left/image_raw |

### ROS Topic and Service Name Length Limit

The length of the DDS topic must not exceed 256 characters. Therefore the length of a ROS Topic, including the namespace hierarchy, the base name of the topic and any ros specific prefixes must not exceed 256 characters since this is mapped directly as DDS topic.

Considerations for RTI Connext

While testing our implementation with Connext, we encountered some additional limitations when it comes to the topic length. That is, for example the length of a service name has tighter limits than the length of the ROS Topics. The RTI Connext implementation for service names are suffixed with the GUID value of the DDS participant for the service response topic. Additionally, a content filtered topic (max length 256 characters) is created which is mapped from the suffixed service name. Therefore when linking against `rmw_connext_c` or `rmw_connext_cpp`, service names cannot be longer than 185 characters including the namespace hierarchy and any ros specific prefixes.

### Communicating with Non-ROS Topics

Since all ROS topics are prefixed when being converted to DDS topic names, it makes it impossible to subscribe to existing DDS topics which do not follow the same naming pattern. For example, if an existing DDS program is publishing on the `image` topic (and is using the DDS equivalent to the ROS message type) then a ROS program could not subscribe to it because of the name mangling produced by the implicit ROS specific namespace. Therefore to allow ROS programs to interoperate with “native” DDS topic names the API should provide a way to skip the ROS specific prefixing.There is an option in the API, a boolean `avoid_ros_namespace_convention` in the qos_profile which can be set to `false` to use ROS prefix and `true` to not using ROS namespace prefixing.

For example:

| ROS Name         | avoid_ros_namespace_conventions | DDS Topic |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------- | --------- |
| rostopic://image | false                           | rt/image  |
| rostopic://image | true                            | image     |

Alternative(Idea)

Note that the alternative below is not part of the proposal, but only possible solutions to the issue of communicating with “native” DDS topics. Another option would be to have some markup in the scheme name, for example:

| ROS Name                            | DDS Topic         |
| ----------------------------------- | ----------------- |
| rostopic://image                    | rt/image          |
| rostopic+exact://image              | image             |
| rostopic+exact://camera_left/image  | camera_left/image |
| rostopic+exact:///camera_left/image | camera_left/image |

## Compare and Contrast with ROS 1

In order to support a mapping to the - slightly more - restrictive DDS topic name rules, these rules are in some ways more constraining than the rules for ROS 1. Other changes have been proposed for convenience or to remove a point of confusion that existed in ROS 1. In ROS 2, topic and service names differ from ROS 1 in that they:

- must separate the tilde (`~`) from the rest of the name with a forward slash (`/`)

  - This is done to avoid inconsistency with how `~foo` works in filesystem paths versus when used in a ROS name.

- may contain substitutions which are delimited with balanced curly braces (`{}`)

  - This is a more generic extension of the idea behind the tilde (`~`).

- have length limits

  - This is driven by the topic name length limit of DDS.

- may be indicated as “hidden” by using a leading underscore (`_`) in one of the namespaces

  - This is used to hide common but infrequently introspected topics and services.

# 参考

[Topic and Service name mapping to DDS](https://design.ros2.org/articles/topic_and_service_names.html)
