# 好处

Some of the shared memory transport advantages are:

- **SHM allows large message support**Network protocols need to fragment data in order to comply with the specific protocol and network stacks requirements, increasing communication overhead. SHM transport allows the copy of full messages where the only size limit is the machine’s memory capacity.

- **SHM reduces the number of memory copies**When sending the same message to different entities, SHM transport can directly share the same memory buffer with all the destinations. Other protocols require to perform one copy of the message per endpoint.

- **SHM requires less operating system overhead**Once initial setup is completed, shared memory transfers require much less system calls than the other protocols. Therefore, there is a performance/time consumption gain by using SHM.

# 限制-POD类型

A POD is a type (including classes) where the C++ compiler guarantees that there will be no "magic" going on in the structure: for example hidden pointers to vtables, offsets that get applied to the address when it is cast to other types (at least if the target's POD too), constructors, or destructors. Roughly speaking, **a type is a POD when the only things in it are built-in types and combinations of them. The result is something that "acts like" a C type.**

传统老类型，没有一些自定义的构造器，析构器，不包含非POD的成员，联合体，没有静态成员，总之，可以看成是一个C结构体，没有cpp的复杂的潜规则。

**3.9(10):** "Arithmetic types (3.9.1), enumeration types, pointer types, and pointer to member types (3.9.2) and cv-qualified versions of these types (3.9.3) are collectively caller scalar types. Scalar types, POD-struct types, POD-union types (clause 9), arrays of such types and cv-qualified versions of these types (3.9.3) are collectively called POD types"

**9(4):** "**A POD-struct is an aggregate class that has no non-static data members of type non-POD-struct, non-POD-union (or array of such types) or reference, and has no user-define copy operator and no user-defined destructor. Similarly a POD-union is an aggregate union that has no non-static data members of type non-POD-struct, non-POD-union (or array of such types) or reference, and has no user-define copy operator and no user-defined destructor.**

**8.5.1(1):** "An aggregate is an array or class (clause 9) with no user-declared constructors (12.1), no private or protected non-static data members (clause 11), no base classes (clause 10) and no virtual functions (10.3)."

# 限制：bounded-size data type

The provider determines how much memory to allocate for each data value based on its data type indicator. For fixed-length data types, such as Booleans and integers, the provider simply allocates enough space to hold one item of that type. For variable-length data types, the provider must rely on the consumer to specify how much memory must be allocated for the data. The consumer does this by setting the value of *cbMaxLen* appropriately.

When the length part of a binding is applied to a column, the length includes all bytes of the value. It should be the same as the length passed to **IMalloc** to allocate a buffer big enough to hold the data value. For strings, this length must include space for a null-termination character. If the value is to be converted, the length should be the length in bytes that the value has after it is converted into the type specified by the consumer.

If a variable-length string value is copied into a buffer that is too small to hold it, the string is truncated abruptly to fit the buffer. No attempt is made to trailing-align or trim the value, although strings are null-terminated. The returned length is the length in bytes of the untruncated value, which the consumer can compare to *cbMaxLen* to determine how many bytes were lost when the string was truncated.

尺寸有界，定长数据类型，变长数据类型

定长数据类型指的是在分配内存的时候，分配器知道该分配多少内存，比如int，std::array，变长数据类型，比如string，std::vector，不知道分配多少内存，必须指定分配的长度，而且在运行时还可能动态变更。

# POD type和bounded-size type

POD必须是bounded-size，必须是尺寸可以预先知道的。

# 参考

[Shared memory implementation available NOW in micro-ROS!](https://discourse.ros.org/t/shared-memory-implementation-available-now-in-micro-ros/20422)

[What are POD types in C++?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/146452/what-are-pod-types-in-c)

[https://www.ibm.com/docs/SSB23S_1.1.0.15/gtpw2/cdatamodel_fixedlength.html](https://www.ibm.com/docs/SSB23S_1.1.0.15/gtpw2/cdatamodel_fixedlength.html)
